---
title: Simple Media Annotation for Real-Time comunication
abbrev: SMART
docname: draft-chen-mmusic-smart-00.txt
date: 2018-10-10

# stand_alone: true

ipr: trust200902
area: ART
wg: mmusic
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: std

coding: us-ascii
pi:    # can use array (if all yes) or hash here
  toc: yes
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes

author:
      -
        ins: W. Chen
        name: Wei Chen
        org: CVTE
        street: Gudang
        role: editor
        city: HangZhou
        code: 320012
        country: China
        phone: +86-013858060444
        email: oeichenwei@gmail.com
      -
        ins: J. Fu
        name: Jeromy Fu
        org: Cisco
        role: editor
        street: Tasman
        city: San Jose
        code: 88600
        country: USA
        phone: "+358407796297"
        email: jeromyf@cisco.com

normative:
  RFC6838:
  RFC4855:

informative:
  REST:
    title: Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures
    author:
#      -
        ins: R. Fielding
        name: Roy Fielding
        org: University of California, Irvine
    date: 2000
    
  
--- abstract

While AI technology arising, automatical video annotation, speech transcription
and similar such technologies are becoming mature. This document proposes one solution 
to transfer and sync such meta data along the media in the context of RTCWeb.
 
--- middle 
# Introduction

  Nowdays, face tracking and face recognition have already made a great progress
and are widely adopted. Face tracking can be used to smart cropping of the video avoiding 
the face being cut, face recognition can be used to identify who are engaged in the 
communication by labelling the name in the video. Speech recognition technology 
becomes mature too, it is not surprised that speech can be automatically 
transcribed to text and assist the real time communications. AI technology can be applied 
to other use cases, like object tracking, emotion detecting, simultaneous translation and so on.

~~~~~~~~~~~
                        +-----------------+
            +---------> | Media Processor +------------+
            |           +-----------------+            |
            |                                          |
            |                                          |
            |                                          |
            |                                          |
        +----+----+                               +-----v----+
        | Sender  |                               | Receiver |
        +---------+                               +----------+
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #center-topo title="Vanallia Media Flow Topology" }
                          
  In a real-time communication scenario like in {{center-topo}}, these intellegent 
processing can be done at sender, media processor or receiver. 
The advantage of doing it at receiver or media processor was backward 
compatibility but there are also disadvantages:

  1. the media quality might degrade due to packet loss or delay on the network.

  2. either all receivers needs to repeat the computation or extra server 
     resources are required to compute it.

  3. some meta data could be captured only on source side, for example, 
     iPhone 3D camera could help extract more information than pure image 
     processing.
  
This document will focus on methods to capture the media meta data at sender 
side and define how to transfer them along with media data to the receiver.

Mixing the meta data with media at the sender is one way to convey them to receivers
, but there are some drawbacks, take compositing annotation text onto the source
picture as an example:
  
  1. If the video was degraded due to network, the text will be unclear.
  
  2. The receiver can not turn on/off the annotation on-demand.
  
  3. The receiver can not customize the utilization of such meta data.
  
This document proposes a new out-of-band payload to transfer them and synchornize
them through timestamp at receiver, rather than extending the current media 
payloads:

  1. It is easier to achieve backward compatiblity.
  
  2. The transportation of the meta data could be different from the media.
     For example, the face tracking information could be combined with the audio 
     transcribed text and render together.

The mechanism described in this document can also be used to transfer other 
media meta data. For example, for dekstop sharing case, the mouse moving events 
can be transfered separately in this format, and we can achieve higher 
frame rate of mouse movement than the screen content.

# Message Format

~~~~~~~~~~~
                    +---------------+---------------+
                    |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
                    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                    | V |   RES | P |      Count    |
                    +---+-------+---+---------------+
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #message-common-hdr title="Common Message Header" }

The message will have 2 bytes header followed with an array of sub-messages. 
All sub-messages share the same common header as in {{message-common-hdr}}.

V:
: Version. The version of this message, it should be set to 0.

RES:
: Reserved. The reserved field, should be set to 0 now.

P:
: Priority. The priority of the message, lower priority packets can be dropped or delayed.

Count:
: Count. The number of sub-messages embedded. There at least one submessage embedded, 
  so the count plus one is the actual number of sub-messages.

## Sub-message common header

~~~~~~~~~~~
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |     Type      |     Len       |              SSRC             |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |            ...SSRC            |          Timestamp            |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |       ...Timestamp            |
      +---------------+---------------+
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #submessage-fmt title="General Sub-message Format" }

Each sub-message will have at least 10 bytes headers, the details are:

Type:
: one-byte pre-defined sub-message type, see table 1.
    
Len:
: the length of the sub-message, not including the common header, in bytes

SSRC:
: 4 bytes, the SSRC of the corresponding source

Timestamp:
: 4 bytes, the timestamp of the corresponding source

This document defines 2 sub-message types and they can be extended in future.

~~~~~~~~~~~
            +------------------+----------+
            |    Sub-message   |   Value  |  
            +------------------+----------+
            |  SMART_RECTS     |     0    |
            +------------------+----------+
            |  SMART_TEXTS     |     1    |
            +------------------+----------+
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #message-type title="Pre-defined Message Types" }

## SMART_RECTS

~~~~~~~~~~~
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |S|I| Name Len  |               ID              |       Left    |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |    ...Lef     |             Top               |      Width    |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |    ...Width   |            Height             |     Name      |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
~~~~~~~~~~~      
{: #message-rects title="SMART_RECTS Message Format" }

This pattern can be repeated, the total number of rectangles could be determined
from the length field of the sub-message common header. Each filed of this 
sub-message is defined as:

S:
: controls the Width/Height fields. If it is 0, there is no Width/Height.

I:
: controls the ID field. If it is 0, there is no ID filed.

Name Len:
: the length of the name field, it can between 0 - 63.

ID:
: the identifier of the rectangle, value is defined by the app.

Left/Top:
: 2 bytes each, the left top point of the rectangle.

Width/Height:
: 2 bytes each, the width and height of the rectangle.

Name:
: the null-terminated UTF-8 string of the name tagging that rectangle, up to 63 bytes.

## SMART_TEXTS

~~~~~~~~~~~
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |T|   Text Len  |          Time Offset          |     Text      |
      +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #message-texts title="SMART_TEXTS Message Format" }

Similar to the SMART_RECTS, each filed of this sub-message is defined as:

T:
: control if Time Offset field was present or not,

Text Len:
: the length of the Name field minor 1, the name length can be 1-128,

Time Offset:
: the millisecond time offset corresponding to the timestamp,

Text:
: A string in UTF-8 encoding.

# SDP Negotiation

The message can be sent along with RTP stream as RTP payload, it can also be 
sent through Data Channel in SCTP.

When it is sent through RTP stream, it can be multiplexed with either Audio or 
Video stream with its own sequence space and separate SSRC, the payload type 
can be negotiated with dynamic payloads.

Resilience technologies like FEC and RTP retransmission can be used on the
annotation stream to provide some kind of reliablity when packet loss. Or in
separate RTP session over realiabe channel like SCTP or TCP. 

## Media Type Registration

Media type registration is done according to [RFC6838] and [RFC4855].

Type name:
: application

Subtype name:
: annotation

Required parameters:
:    
    type:
    : supported sub-message type values, use vertical bar to concatenate, 
      for example, type=0|1, means it will generate both SMART_RECTS and 
      SMART_TEXTS. The type indicates how many payloads it could be encoded in 
      the source side.
   
    Optional parameters:
    :  
        minptime:
        : the minimum interval of such meta data
        
        maxbitrate:
        : the maximum bitrate of such meta data, in kbps units
      
## Example

~~~~~~~~~~~   
    m=audio 5004 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111 104
    c=IN IP4 47.98.240.10
    a=rtcp:9 IN IP4 0.0.0.0
    a=mid:audio
    a=sendrecv
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:111 opus/48000/2
    a=fmtp:111 minptime=10;sprop-stereo=0;stereo=0;usedtx=0;useinbandfec=1
    a=rtpmap:104 annotation/1000
    a=fmtp:104 type=0|1;maxbitrate=2
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #sdp-example title="Example SDP Offer with SMART Support" }

In this example, 104 was selected for the media annotation and it will send 
along with audio stream.

## Send Through Data Channel

TODO?

# RTCWeb implicition

To achieve the synced video annotation, RTCWeb needs to open interface for 
application operating the rendering of the annotation with the video. Exposure 
of the video raw data to JS layer and let application renders it with Canvas or 
WebGL would be a good choice.

# Compatible

When the legacy endpoints received such an OFFER, it can just ignore the payload.

# Security Considerations

Such meta data could be privacy as the same level of the media, sender can 
decide to not distribute them. The meta data should be encrypted in the transer 
and it should also support end to end encription.

# IANA Considerations

"application/annotation" media type should be registered as defined in [RFC6838].

# Acknowledgements


https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml

http://asciiflow.com/
